---
title: This is the first page generated by Minerl!
layout: post 
# this is comment and will not be parsed
format: perl, markdown
# slug: post1.html
type: post
tags: java, android, linux
---

**Minrel** is a static site generator written in Perl.

I need to talk to a memcached server in Perl program, and I need to uses SASL.

Now Perl has a whole bunch of memcached client libraries, but seems that none supports SASL.

The closest seems to be Memcached::libmemcached, which is a very thin wrapper around the C libmemcached library. In theory, all I need to do is to expose the memcached_set_sasl_auth_data function, call it once, and be happy. In practice, this segfaults (I've tried this in the sasl branch of this repository). It seems that the libmemcached library bundled with the perl module is very out of date, and upgrading to a new one is no easy task, because much of structure of the header files changed.

My next hope was that it could be relatively easy to pair up Authen::SASL and one of the existing memcached clients. However Memcached only supports SASL for the binary protocol, and all the other perl modules only support the text protocol (please correct me if I'm wrong here).

Finally there's a small pure-perl client in the tests of the memcached server, which seems to be my only remaining option. I'm reluctant to use it though, because it's not maintained as a "real" client, has no docs and no proper error handling.

So, my question is: Are there any options I overlooked? Or is somebody maybe even working on a client with sasl support? (Or is there another comparable open-source distributed memory cache with perl libraries that support authentication?).

Let's test markdown, this is a link pointing to [Google](https://www.google.com).
